---
id: byhyyaof5a84lttrjshvtui
title: Metabolite Annotation
desc: ''
updated: 1726643335155
created: 1726643254144
---

Experimental spectral libraries search The full spectral data set corresponding to the extracts collection has been uploaded on the MassIVE repository https://doi.org/XXXX, and a continuous identification workflow is automatically carried against the Global Natural Products Social Molecular Networking (GNPS) experimental spectral libraries: https://gnps.ucsd.edu/ProteoSAFe/result.jsp?task=XXXXXview=advanced_view.


Theoretical spectral libraries search In addition to experimental spectral libraries search we have shown that spectral matching against theoretical spectral libraries of natural products was an efficient way to cover a much wider, yet relevant, spectral space (Allard et al., 2016). Furthermore, we showed that taking into account the taxonomical distance between the biological source of the candidate structure and the biological source of the annotated extracts greatly improved the overall quality of the annotation results (Rutz et al., 2019). Thus, in addition to the spectral search performed at the molecular networking step against publicly available spectral libraries (see previous section) a taxonomically informed metabolite annotation was performed. For this, we first established a large theoretical spectral database of natural products following a previously established metabolite annotation workflow. This spectral database and associated biological sources metadata were constructed using chemical structure and information compiled during the LOTUS Initiative's first project aiming to establish an open and evolutive resource compiling natural products and biological occurrences (Rutz, Bisson, et al., 2022; Rutz, Sorokina, et al., 2022). The theoretical spectral database is publicly available (Allard et al., 2022). The biological sources metadata are available online (Rutz, Bisson, et al., 2022; Rutz, Sorokina, et al., 2022). The taxonomically informed metabolite annotation was performed using the met_annot_enhancer scripts version v0.1: https://github.com/mandelbrot-project/met_annot_enhancer/releases/tag/v0.1. The parameters used for the taxonomically informed metabolite annotation process and the resulting tables can be found at https://doi.org/XXXXXX. Sirius (Dührkop et al., 2019) (v.5.5.7) and CANOPUS (Djoumbou Feunang et al., 2016; Dührkop et al., 2021; Kim et al., 2021) were also employed to proceed to metabolite annotation and attribution of chemical classes to MSMS spectra.